Obstetric ultrasound is a harmless, cheap, and noninvasive imaging modality that helps to scan a pregnant mother’s abdominal and pelvic cavity with high-frequency sound waves giving parents a real-time image of the fetus (Dasan, 2016). The use of ultrasound in obstetrics is critical because it allows us to explore and detect various disorders even in the early stages of pregnancy, improve the quality of antenatal care (ANC) and pregnancy outcomes and treatment of disease in the current era of evidence-based medicine and as the number of pregnancies rises globally, the demand for obstetric ultrasound becomes even more pressing (Leung, 2021). World Health Organisation WHO, 2016 recommends that all pregnant women have one ultrasound scan before 24 weeks of pregnancy to estimate gestational age (GA), assess placental placement, determine single or multiple pregnancies, increase fetal abnormality detection, and improve pregnancy outcomes in addition to ultrasound scans when indicated. First trimester – ultrasound performed within the first 3 months of pregnancy is used to check that the embryo is developing inside the womb (rather than inside a fallopian tube, for example), confirm the number of embryos, and calculate the gestational age and the baby’s due date. Second trimester - ultrasound performed between weeks 13 and 26 is used to check the development of fetal structures such as the spine, limbs, brain and internal organs. The size and location of the placenta is also checked. The baby’s sex can be established if the parents wish to know. Third trimester - ultrasound performed from 26 weeks is used to check that the baby is continuing to grow at a normal rate. The location of the placenta is checked to make sure it isn’t blocking the cervix (Better Health Channel).
First-trimester ultrasonography is a commonly performed exam by an obstetrician or healthcare provider within the first 13 weeks post-conception. It may be utilised as a part of the standard evaluation during pregnancy or to elucidate other concerning signs and symptoms (e.g., vaginal bleeding, the suspected passage of fetal tissue, etc.). 
